[Music]
eleven common guiding mistakes
sabotaging your weight loss you
diligently abstain from potato chips ice
cream fast-food soda cake and even pizza
my word how do you do it well you fully
switched to and embraced a healthy
lifestyle your new menu consists of all
the fitness guru essentials organic
products lots of granola and low-fat
foods and plenty of sports drinks to
stay hydrated unfortunately you still
haven't lost an inch around your waist
so what's the deal here
are you doing something wrong perhaps
the problem is in these eleven
all-too-common diving mistakes that even
the biggest health nuts are guilty of
before we get to busting some popular
diet myths be sure to click the
subscribe button and ring that
notification belt so that you'll always
be the first to see all our daily
uploads here on the bright side of life
number one choosing organic products
organic foods are believed to be
healthier and safer than regular ones
but according to dr. David Clure felled
the national program leader in human
nutrition at the US Department of
Agriculture there's no scientific
backing behind this claim dr. Clare Feld
states that there's very limited
information as to which one is better
than the other when growing organic
products farmers don't use synthetic
pesticides instead they're replaced with
natural pesticides but the side effects
of which haven't really been studied
thoroughly plus the Eco or natural mark
on the package doesn't always equal
healthy food sometimes it's just a
marketing ploy used to increase sales if
you haven't noticed organic products are
usually 10 percent to 50 percent more
expensive than conventional food items
if you're really keen on buying these
products it's important to pay attention
to their content origin and appearance
number two going gluten-free ah gluten
this controversial term gets thrown
around so easily these days let's start
by defining exactly what it is
Medical News Today explains that gluten
is a group of proteins found in grains
like wheat and rye the two major
proteins in it are gliadin and glutenin
gliadin is the reason why
health-conscious people stay away from
products containing gluten now there are
those who really do need to stick to a
gluten-free diet because they've been
diagnosed with celiac disease but only
about 1% of people have this condition
as for everybody else jumping on the
gluten-free bandwagon they won't get any
health benefits from this sort of diet
has explained by dr. Daniel Lafleur the
director of research at the celiac
Center at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical
Center in fact according to the latest
research abstaining from whole grains
which are full of gluten increases a
person's risk of developing
cardiovascular disease basically if you
don't have celiac disease or a gluten
allergy there's no need to cut this
protein from your diet
number three buying low-fat products in
pursuit of a healthy lifestyle many
people choose low-fat or fat-free
products but very few realize that by
reducing the fat content in a certain
product manufacturers compensate for
this with other taste enhancing
components they add more sugar
artificial flavors and trans fats which
are bad for your health and only mean
more calories our bodies actually do
need fat and excluding it from your diet
is only recommended for real medical
reasons in all other cases simply
cutting down on your fat intake and
being smart about what kinds of fats you
consume will be enough the American
Heart Association recommends keeping the
amount of fat in your diet to 30% and
it's better to opt for good fats or good
cholesterol since they're beneficial to
your blood vessels and nervous system
healthy fats can be found in nuts seeds
and fish oils number four drinking fruit
juices hey if it contains the word fruit
in it how could drinking fruit juices
possibly be bad for you well this type
of drink contains loads of sugar and
calories plus you don't have any dietary
fiber juice satisfies neither your
hunger nor your thirst but it can add
pounds to your weight uh-oh and this
fact makes it no different from sweet
soda drinks don't be fooled by labels
such as 100% pure or not from
concentrate did you know that a glass of
apple juice contains 120 calories and 24
grams of sugar
yikes just stick to a whole piece of
fruit or water you can always add a
little sweet taste to your h2o by
throwing in some frozen berries or lemon
slices
number five eating energy bars these
bars are great for a quick snack on the
go plus you can find them in the healthy
foods aisle at the grocery store but are
they really what they seem it probably
comes as no surprise by this point but
no they aren't most bars contain sugar
chocolate glazed caramel artificial
flavors and other additives they're no
different from ordinary sweets when it
comes to sugar content while the amount
of calories in them equals a
full-fledged meal yet you're not getting
the essential nutrients that you would
from a full plate of healthy foods so
don't replace your meals with what's
essentially a candy bar if you want
something sweet then try a bit of dark
chocolate it's good for you and
satisfies that sweet tooth just as well
number six
preferring dried fruits over whole ones
we talked about the dangers of fruit
juices so we might as well cover dried
fruit too the usefulness or harm of
dried fruit depends entirely on the
conditions in which they were cooked and
stored as a rule manufacturers
chemically processed fruits before
drying them which helps extend their
shelf life but decreases their
beneficial features dried fruits are
good and healthy
if you cook and dry them at home
yourself when choosing them at the store
it's better to buy those dried fruit
that don't look attractive aren't shiny
orange candied or coated with sugar or
syrup and are rough to the touch
number seven choosing eggs with a brown
shell the myth goes that brown shelled
eggs are better for you but contrary to
popular belief the size and color of an
egg as well as the hens breed don't
matter
the main rule for choosing good-quality
eggs should be determined by its grade
yup
eggs get grades - based on the standards
set by the USDA an egg can have a grade
of double a the highest a satisfactory
or B low quality always buy eggs that
are refrigerated and stored in cardboard
cartons not the styrofoam or plastic
ones they should also be clean odor free
and of course not broken or cracked
number 8 drinking sports drinks it's no
wonder people assume that sports drinks
are good for you after all athletes are
the epitome of physical fitness right
however sports drinks like a lot of the
items on this list contain tons of sugar
corn syrup artificial food additives and
colorants manufacturers promised that
their products quench your thirst during
training because they're loaded with
electrolytes that help keep you going
but what's basically sugar water will
actually decrease the efficiency of your
physical exercise dr. Julie silver from
the Harvard Medical School advises that
if you're exercising for more than an
hour at moderate to high intensity it's
alright to have one sports drink but it
should contain no more than six to eight
percent carbohydrates
however she recommends that it's better
to drink water when exercising or
training nothing quenches your thirst
and rehydrate your body better than good
old h2o
[Music]
number nine buying imported products
many people assume that imported
products are better than local ones it
is true sometimes but not always for
example an apple grown on a local farm
in natural conditions and sold
immediately contains more useful
elements than an exotic fruit brought
over from another country and chemically
processed so that it can endure the long
journey of course imported products have
some advantages too but when choosing
them
you should pay close attention to the
product storage dates composition
manufacturer and importer number 10
eating granola the hype around granola
has been created mostly by marketing
experts sure it's got fiber and iron but
granola also contains a lot of sugar and
some not so healthy oils that definitely
aren't going to help you achieve your
dream bod of course not
all types of granola are full of these
nono ingredients you just need to read
the label carefully when buying it as a
healthier alternative certified
dietician dr. Ralph L Bochy suggests
making your own granola at home number
11 cutting food intake without counting
calories the difference between
consuming a fried egg versus a boiled
one is that the boiled egg has 66 fewer
calories so if you eat two boiled eggs
that had come to 188 calories which is
only slightly more than the hundred 96
calories contained in a single fried egg
a study led by dr. Milan Kumar Pia from
the University of Warwick only
solidifies the well-known fact that
counting calories really does matter
when you want to lose weight keep track
of your calorie intake and make sure
your daily limit is based on your age
weight gender and activity level
are you guilty of any of these habits
that sabotage weight loss do you know of
any others please share your knowledge
and experience in the comments below if
this video has helped you in any way
give it a like and share it with your
friends be sure to subscribe and hang
out with us on the bright side of life